---
layout: post
title: 538 Polling Data
category: posts
published: true
---

## [{{ page.title }}]({{ page.url }})
There is a scuffle going on between 538 and Huffington Post over polling data adjustments.
See <a href="https://twitter.com/NateSilver538/status/794994593574113282">this tweet</a> and <a href="">this article</a>.
Reading the debate made me curious enough to check the data for myself so I downloaded <a href="http://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/general-model/president_general_polls_2016.csv">538's data</a>, which includes the adjustments and made the following viz to see what the trends look like.

<iframe frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" scroll="no" allowtransparency="true" allowfullscreen="true" class="tableauViz" style="display: block;width: 609px;height: 700px;margin: 0px;padding: 0px;border: none;overflow: hidden;" src="http://public.tableau.com/shared/WR6ZNJT2Q?:embed=y&amp;:showVizHome=no&amp;:host_url=https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F&amp;:toolbar=yes&amp;:animate_transition=yes&amp;:display_static_image=no&amp;:display_spinner=no&amp;:display_overlay=yes&amp;:display_count=yes&amp;:loadOrderID=0"></iframe>

I have defined the net adjustment as

$$adj_{net} = adj_{clinton}-raw_{clinton}-(adj_{trump}-raw_{trump}).$$

It isn't clear to me what independent source of data 538 has used to model/estimate the adjustment to poll data.
I can imagine using past elections to model bias of pollsters, but in that case the adjustments would be fixed per election cycle--clearly the adjustments aren't fixed.

I was also surprised to see that the adjustments are applied almost uniformly across all pollsters.
That is, almost all Georgia raw poll data has been adjusted towards Trump.
In fact almost all polls in all states have been adjusted in Trump's favor (unselect a state to see all data).


If we only plot the adjustment per cadidate $$adj_{candidate}-raw_{candidate}$$, then we see a trend that is more intuitive where pollsters have varying weight depending on their partisanship.
What's curious is that 538's model always gives Trump the relative bump for all polls--whether they tend to be biased left or right.
Maybe there is an obvious reason for this that I am missing.
Perhaps it has something to do with corrected for third party candidates?

<iframe frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" allowtransparency="true" allowfullscreen="true" class="tableauViz" style="display: block; width: 609px; height: 700px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: none;" src="https://public.tableau.com/shared/34FPZ86PD?:embed=y&amp;:showVizHome=no&amp;:host_url=https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F&amp;:toolbar=no&amp;:animate_transition=yes&amp;:display_static_image=no&amp;:display_spinner=no&amp;:display_overlay=yes&amp;:display_count=no&amp;:loadOrderID=0"></iframe>
<br>

